> See the [Index of Legislation](https://trello.com/b/UTpumOwr/vancouver-legislative-archives) for this Act's legislative history, including amendments that have not been added to this text.

### Bylaw [34](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1N826lX0-jzFUB-Qxk4eVtRm53foaSReBRCPUv7s0BRQ/edit)

#### Revised Road Safety Bylaw

#### 2nd City Council - Session 28

_Table of Contents_


```
Preamble
I. Definitions
II. Stop Sign Intersections
III. Uncontrolled Intersections
IV. Traffic Light Intersection
V. Traffic Circles
VII. Emergency Vehicles, School Buses And Bicycles
VIII. Turning And Medians
IX. Speed Limits
X. Nullification Of Past Legislation
XI. Timeframe Of Legislative Implementation
XII. Mode Of Nullification
```

**Preamble**

**(a)** Whereas, it has been found by the City Council of Vancouver that many drivers in the City of Vancouver do not safely operate their vehicles. \
**(b)** Therefore, this bylaw to Improve Road Safety shall be made.

**I. Definitions**

**(a)** In this Act, \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(i)** “4 way stop” is defined as; An intersection where two roads cross and all sides have a stop sign. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(ii)** “3-Way Stop” is defined as; An intersection where a road connects to another road and does not continue on the other side of the road and each side has a stop sign. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(iii)** “2-Way Stop” is defined as; An intersection where two roads cross and only two sides have a stop sign. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(iv)** “Uncontrolled Intersection” is defined as; An intersection that is not controlled by stop signs, traffic lights, or another form of traffic control. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(v)** “Speed limit sign” is defined as; a sign that is designed to communicate a set legal maximal or minimal speed that a vehicle must travel at.

**II. Stop Sign Intersections**

**(a)** At 4-Way, 3-Way, and 2-Way stops, the driver who reaches the intersection and comes to a complete stop first gets to enter the intersection first. \
**(b)** At 2-Way Stops, the driver that gets to go first must yield to cross traffic before they enter the intersection. 

**III. Uncontrolled Intersections**

**(a)** Drivers turning left at an uncontrolled intersection must yield to oncoming drivers turning right or going straight. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(i)** If both drivers are turning left, the driver who reaches the intersection first gets to turn left before the other driver turns left. \
**(b)** If two cars arrive at an uncontrolled intersection at the same time and they are not traveling in opposite directions, the driver on the left must yield the right-of-way to the driver on the right. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(i)** If the driver on the right is turning left and the driver on the left is turning right, both may enter the intersection at the same time. \
**(c)** Drivers on a minor road must yield to drivers on a main road. 

**IV. Traffic Light Intersection**

**(a)** There is a clear distinction between what is considered a ‘light’ and an ‘arrow’; Lights are solid traffic lights, whereas arrows are traffic lights in the shape of an arrow. \
**(b)** Turning Lights: \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(i)** If a driver turning left has a green light and oncoming traffic also has a green light, the driver turning left must yield to oncoming traffic going straight or turning right. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(ii)** If a driver turning has a green arrow, they have the right-of-way. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(iii)** If a driver turning has a flashing yellow arrow, they must yield the right-of-way to any cross or oncoming traffic. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(iv)** If a driver turning has a yellow arrow, they must slow down upon approach to the intersection. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(v)** A red arrow acts as a red light. \
**(c)** Drivers may turn right at a red light, but they must yield to cross traffic. They may not turn right on a red right-turn arrow. 

**V. Traffic Circles**

**(a)** Drivers entering traffic circles must yield to drivers in the lane they are entering. SECTION VI - PEDESTRIANS \
**(a)** Drivers must yield the right-of-way to pedestrians when; \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(i)** The pedestrian or pedestrians are at a marked or unmarked crosswalk and there is no traffic light; \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(ii)** The pedestrian or pedestrians are crossing with a walk light and you are turning into their path; or, \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(iii)** The safety of the pedestrian or pedestrians is threatened. 

**VII. Emergency Vehicles, School Buses And Bicycles**

**(a)** In all circumstances, drivers must yield the right-if-way to any responding emergency vehicle. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(i)** An emergency vehicle without its emergency lights activated does not get the right-of-way in every circumstance and must be treated like a normal driver. \
**(b)** When a school bus has its red, usually flashing, stop sign extended, drivers must stop and not cross the stop sign until it is retracted. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(i)** If the bus is at an intersection, all drivers at an intersection, whether they would be crossing the stop sign or not, must stop for the bus and not enter the intersection until the stop sign is retracted. \
**(c)** Bicyclists must follow the same right of way rules as other drivers on the roadways. 

**VIII. Turning And Medians**

**(a)** If a driver arrives at an intersection with designated and marked turning lanes, he or she must use said lane to make a turn. \
**(b)** If a driver arrives at an intersection with no designated turning lanes, he or she must use the left-most lane to make a left turn or the right-most lane to make a right turn. \
**(c)** If a lane contains a straight only arrow, no turn may be made in said lane. \
**(d)** If a driver is making a left-hand turn onto a road with a paved median–meaning nothing is inside the median, such as some grass–he or she may turn into the median in order to safely merge into traffic. 

**IX. Speed Limits**

**(a)** All drivers within the area of the City of Vancouver must follow speed limitations set up by speed limit signs. 

**X. Nullification Of Past Legislation**

**(a)** The following legislation shall be considered null and void \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(i)** Road Safety Act of 2022

**XI. Timeframe Of Legislative Implementation**

**(a)** This legislation shall go into effect following the completion of the required procedure. 

**XII. Mode Of Nullification**

**(a)** This Bylaw shall be deemed to have been nullified by repealment via an Act of the Council or any section, clause, phrase, or word in the Bylaw having been found by a judicial body of appropriate and legal jurisdiction to have deemed this Bylaw in direct contradiction and violation of the City Charter of Vancouver.

---

Province of British Columbia