> See the [Index of Legislation](https://trello.com/b/UTpumOwr/vancouver-legislative-archives) for this Act's legislative history, including amendments that have not been added to this text.

### Bylaw [31](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1PY1pfubDBCYpyIwefneWPZXxEPcI7Pvl/view)

#### Department of Business Affairs Bylaw

#### 2nd City Council - Session 27

_Table of Contents_


```
Preamble
I. Definitions
II. Reforming The Department Of Business Affairs
III. Timeframe Of Legislative Implementation
IV. Mode Of Nullification
```

**Preamble**

**(a)** Whereas, it has been found by the City Council of Vancouver, that reform within the unorganized department is needed. \
**(b)** Therefore, this bylaw to Reform the Department of Business Affairs shall be made. 

**I. Definitions**

**(a)** In this Act, \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(i)** “Department of Business Affairs” or “DOBA” is defined as [https://www.roblox.com/groups/7699909/Vancouver-Business-Commission#!/about](https://www.roblox.com/groups/7699909/Vancouver-Business-Commission#!/about) \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(ii)** “Business” is defined as an organized entity that offers goods or services with the intent to make a profit

**II. Reforming The Department Of Business Affairs**

**(a)** The Department of Business Affairs (DOBA) shall be established as an agency under the Executive Branch. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(i)** The Department of Business Affairs shall be considered a legal entity that can be sued. \
**(b)** A business shall be defined as an organized entity that offers goods or services with the intent to make a profit. \
**(i)** All licensed businesses shall be considered a legal entity that can be sued. \
**(c)** The Department of Business Affairs shall be responsible for issuing business licenses; all businesses operating within the City of Vancouver shall be required to hold a license. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(i)** The Department of Business Affairs shall have the power to inspect any prospective business applying for a license. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(ii)** Businesses being inspected by the Department of Business Affairs shall turn over any business records requested by an inspection that can be used to reasonably judge the business’s compliance with business regulations. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(1)** All records turned over in inspection shall be confidential between the Department of Business Affairs and the business in question, except when the business allows it to show violation of business policies and/or law, or to comply with a court of law. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(2)** Business records shall include, but not be limited to public Discord server channels, Trello boards, Documents, Spreadsheets, and in-game property (in the City of Vancouver) the business operates off of. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(3)** Businesses that fail to turn over such records shall automatically be denied a license. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(iii)** The Department of Business Affairs may create sub-licenses that require compliance with additional business regulations for specialized fields of goods or services. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(iv)** The Department of Business Affairs shall have the power to revoke a business license if it proves by the preponderance of evidence that such business violated business regulations and/or law. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(v)** The Department of Business Affairs shall have the power to suspend a business license for a period of no more than ten (7) days for the purpose of investigating a potential violation of business regulations and/or law. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(vi)** The Department of Business Affairs shall have the power to blacklist an individual from obtaining a business license if the individual shows a clear disregard for business regulations and/or law, \
**(d)** The Department of Business Affairs shall create a fair and standard set of business regulations that all licensed businesses are required to comply with. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(i)** Within the regulations, the Department of Business Affairs shall create a set of employment and disciplinary guidelines for licensed businesses to abide by. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(ii)** Any employee of a licensed business shall have the right to challenge any disciplinary action they’ve received to the Department of Business Department or the court of law if they believe such action was false or issued in violation of business regulations and/or law. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(iii)** The Department of Business Affairs shall maintain a panel of three (3) or more people (must be an odd number) not employed in the Department of Business Affairs that are responsible for hearing disciplinary challenges from licensed business employees \
**(e)** Anyone employed within a licensed business shall not be treated differently based on race, sex, gender, religious beliefs, political orientation, or any protected group. \
**(f)** The Department of Business Affairs shall be in possession of all land designated for future business development, and may lease any land owned to licensed businesses with additional terms on the lease. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(i)** Any licensed business leasing land from the Department of Business Affairs shall be considered the owner of the land while the lease is in effect. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(ii)** Said land shall be considered as private property. 

**III. Timeframe Of Legislative Implementation**

**(a)** This legislation shall go into effect following the completion of the required procedure. 

**IV. Mode Of Nullification**

**(a)** This act shall be deemed to have been nullified by repealment via an bylaw of the Council or any section, clause, phrase, or word in the bylaw having been found by a judicial body of appropriate and legal jurisdiction to have deemed this bylaw in direct contradiction and violation of the City Charter of Vancouver.\

---

Province of British Columbia