> See the [Index of Legislation](https://trello.com/b/UTpumOwr/vancouver-legislative-archives) for this Act's legislative history, including amendments that have not been added to this text.

### Bylaw [40](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Q3KiBLDpeS5LN5POYQG6Or3Bg57wbL1rhHs-4PyLBhY/edit)

#### An Amendment to Clarify the Inspection Procedures of the DOBA

#### 2nd City Council - Session 30

_Table of Contents_


```
Preamble
I. Definitions
II. Amendments To The Doba Bylaw
III. Timeframe Of Legislative Implementation
IV. Mode Of Nullification
```

**Preamble**

**(a)** Whereas, it has been found by the City Council of Vancouver, a part of the Department of Business Affairs Bylaw has been left for interpretation of which is unintended for the bill. \
**(b)** Therefore, this amendment to clarify the inspection procedures of the DOBA shall be made.

**I. Definitions**

**(a)** In this Act,\
“Department of Business Affairs ByLaw” refers to https://drive.google.com/file/d/1PY1pfubDBCYpyIwefneWPZXxEPcI7Pvl/view 

**II. Amendments To The Doba Bylaw**

**(a)** Section II, Subsection C, Part II, Subsection 2 of the Department of Business Affairs ByLaw currently states,\
“Business records shall include, but not be limited to public Discord server channels, Trello boards, Documents, Spreadsheets, and in-game property (in the City of Vancouver) the business operates off of.\
**(b)** Section II, Subsection C, Part II, Subsection 2 of the Department of Business Affairs ByLaw shall now state,\
“Business records shall include, but not be limited to publicly accessible channels within the public discord server, documents, spreadsheets, and in-game property (in the City of Vancouver) the business operates off of.

**III. Timeframe Of Legislative Implementation**

**(a)** This legislation shall go into effect following the completion of the required procedure. 

**IV. Mode Of Nullification**

**(a)** This amendment shall be deemed to have been nullified by repealment via an Act of the Council or any section, clause, phrase, or word in the amendment having been found by a judicial body of appropriate and legal jurisdiction to have deemed this amendment in direct contradiction and violation of the City Charter of Vancouver.

---

Province of British Columbia