> See the [Index of Legislation](https://trello.com/b/UTpumOwr/vancouver-legislative-archives) for this Act's legislative history, including amendments that have not been added to this text.

### Bylaw [42](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18Elgcdqv1U_5bVWq9tax8tRp4Uhw2kFVso9JDHSlksw/edit)

#### Legislative Subpoena Compliance & Enforcement Bylaw of 2022

#### 2nd City Council - Session 35

_Table of Contents_


```
Preamble
I. Definitions
II. Charter Amendment
III. Enforcement Of Legislative Subpoenas
IV. Compliance With Legislative Subpoenas
V. Interpretation
VI. Timeframe Of Legislative Implementation
VII. Mode Of Nullification
```

**Preamble**

**(a)** Whereas, it has been found by the City Council of Vancouver, that there is no clear definition giving powers to the Legislature to subpoena individuals for matters such as Committees and Inquiries. \
**(b)** This bylaw may be cited as the Legislative Subpoena Compliance & Enforcement Bylaw of 2022

**I. Definitions**

**(a)** In this Act, \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(i)** “VCC” means [Vancouver Criminal Code](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1iJ6Yt_v3XVhZnKZg3yGmqe15xbE3gzLwJ4ZMcRNCsDM/edit#gid=1112055023) \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(ii)** “Charter” means [City Charter of Vancouver](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1vVHpXCjq2zz52SnSn6mmCzB2H2KmQlY3/view) \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(iii)** "information" shall be defined as: any documents, trellos, HackMDs, data, google sheets, google forms, google drives, google folders or any other information requested in a subpoena issued by a congressional committee, 

**II. Charter Amendment**

**(a)** Article II, Section 11, clause a shall be added to reflect the following \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(i)** The Legislative Body of the City of Vancouver shall be vested with the power to subpoena persons as the Legislature finds necessary to provide information that would aid an investigation or inquiry by the Legislative Body. 

**III. Enforcement Of Legislative Subpoenas**

**(a)** The Legislative Body or a committee or subcommittee thereof, may bring civil action against the recipient of a subpoena issued by the Legislative Body or a committee or subcommittee to enforce compliance with the subpoena. \
**(b)** In any civil action described in subsection \
**(a)**, the following rules shall apply: \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(i)** The action shall be filed in the Municipal Court of the City of Vancouver \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(ii)** It shall be the responsibility & duty of the Municipal Court of the City of Vancouver to expedite the disposition of any such action and appeal. Upon a showing by the plaintiff of undue delay, other irreparable harm, or good cause, the court to which an appeal of the action may be taken shall issue any necessary and appropriate writs and orders to ensure compliance with this paragraph. \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(iii)** The initial pleading must be followed by certification that the party bringing the action has in good faith consulted or sought to confer with the recipient of the subpoena in order to ensure compliance with the subpoena without action being taken by the courts. 

**IV. Compliance With Legislative Subpoenas**

**(a)** Any recipient of any subpoena from the Legislative body or a legislative committee or subcommittee shall appear and testify, produce or otherwise disclose material in a manner consistent with the subpoena and this section \
**(b)** Unless otherwise required by the City Charter or City Statutes, no claim of privilege or protection from disclosure shall be grounds to withhold or provide material in response to a subpoena or as required by this section. \
**(c)** In the case that the recipient of a subpoena does not withhold information or material responsive to a subpoena then the recipient shall provide a "receipt" and or a "log" that shall identify such information. Such receipt and log shall contain the following: \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(i)** Date, author, and addresse \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(ii)** The type of information \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(iii)** General subject of information \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(iv)** The custodian of such information \
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**(v)** Any further descriptive information that may be produced or disclosed regarding the information that would allow the Legislative Body or committee or subcommittee issuing the subpoena to assess the ground asserted for withholding such information.

**V. Interpretation**

**(a)** Nothing in this Bylaw shall be interpreted to limit or constrain the Legislature authority or foreclosure any other means for enforcing compliance with legislative subpoenas, nor may anything in this Bylaw be interpreted to establish or recognized any ground for noncompliance with a legislative subpoenas 

**VI. Timeframe Of Legislative Implementation**

**(a)** This legislation shall go into effect following the completion of the required procedure. 

**VII. Mode Of Nullification**

**(a)** This Bylaw shall be deemed to have been nullified by repealment via an Act of the Council or any section, clause, phrase, or word in the Bylaw having been found by a judicial body of appropriate and legal jurisdiction to have deemed this Bylaw in direct contradiction and violation of the City Charter of Vancouver

---

Province of British Columbia